

These are commands related to docker file:
From, pulls the specified base image from the repository.
Maintainer, tag helps you to manage the author credentials who has contributed
towards building the image.
Label, Allows to add the Metadata via key value pairs, which can later be used to
search the images.
E N V, allows us to set the shell variables that can be used during the image building.
Run, used to install within the base image some software dependency or any file
structure one needs.
Add, used to copy file system from your local to your image.
Work Dir, change working directory.
C M D, defines command.
User, by default is the ROOT user.



Building a Docker image from Docker file
Objective:
To build a docker image from a dockerfile.
Step1: Creating a Dockerfile
Login to the Linux EC2 instance and create a dockerfile, which consists of
dockerfile instructions in a text file format.
You can create a dockerfile from a preferred editor such as vi, nano, etc. of
your choice.
So, in the command prompt, type
vi dockerfile1
Inside the Docker file, type the following set of docker instructions
FROM ubuntu
RUN apt-get update -y
RUN apt-get install figlet -y
RUN touch t1
CMD /bin/bash
Exit the file by pressing the below keys in order,
Escape :wq
This saves the file.
The docker file is successfully created and can build a container image out
of these instructions.
Step2: Building Docker image
In the EC2 instance that is connected, type
docker image build -t demo1:1.0 –f dockerfile1 .
The image demo1 version1.0 is built successfully and can be verified by
typing,
docker images
Step3: Run a container
You will now run a container out of the image created. Type,
docker container run -it --name demo1 demo1:1.0 /bin/bash
The docker container is created and running successfully and the
confirmation can be viewed by typing,
docker container ls
Step4: Stop the container
To stop the container that is running, type
docker container stop demo1
Step5: Remove the container
To remove the container, type
docker container rm –f demo1
Summary:
Thus, you have learnt how to create a container image from a
dockerfile and the lifecycle of a container.
The rest of the lifecycle commands will be discussed in the subsequent
demo.