
Amazon ECS using Fargate
Objective:
To deploy a sample application onto a Amazon ECS cluster
using Fargate launch type.
Pre-requisite:
Desired IAM permission to work with Amazon ECS.
Step1: Create a Task Definition
A task definition is like a blueprint for your application.
Every time you launch a task in Amazon ECS, you specify a task
definition.
• Open the Amazon ECS console at
https://console.aws.amazon.com/ecs/home#/firstRun (or)
click on Get Started from the cluster console
• Select the region on which you are going to create the
cluster
• Next, you need to configure container definition parameter.
For Container definition, the first-run wizard comes
preloaded container definitions. You can either choose one of
them and can edit the values or you can custom create your
own container definition.
Over here, sample-app is selected.
• For Task definition, the wizard also provides preloaded
container definitions. You can rename the task definition if
required by choosing Edit.
• Click on Next
Step2: Configure the Service
Here, you will create a service based on the task definition
created. A service will launch and maintains the required number
of task definition inside the cluster.
The Amazon ECS sample application is a web application that is
meant to run indefinitely. If the task becomes unhealthy or
unexpectedly stops, it automatically restarts the tasks, while
created as a service.
• In the service console, edit and provide name for the
service, enter the specified number of tasks needed to run.
• Configure security group and load balancer if any required
and click on Next.
Step3: Configure the Cluster
Amazon ECS takes care of the networking and IAM configuration
for you.
• In the section, in the Cluster name field, choose a name for
your cluster and click on Next
Step4: Review
• Review the configuration made and click Create to finish.
You will be landed to a Launch Status page that shows the status
of your launch which describes each step of the process.
This may take few minutes.
• Once the launch is completed, click on View Service
Step5: View your Service
As this is a web-based application, it can be viewed using
browser.

• On the view service page, click on Tasks tab
As, the selection made above was 2 tasks, 2 tasks are appearing.
• Select one of the tasks from the list
• Under Network section, click on the ENI Id for your task.
• This takes you to the network interface console of Amazon
EC2 console.
• Copy the public IPV4 address allocated to the ENI Id
• Now, paste the copied IPV4 address on the browser to view
the webpage.
Step6: Clean up
Once you are finished demonstrating with Amazon ECS Cluster,
clean up the resources to avoid the charges for using up the
resources.
• In the navigation pane of Amazon ECS Cluster, choose
Clusters.
• Select the cluster to delete and click on Delete cluster
• At the confirmation prompt, enter delete me and then
choose Delete. Deleting the cluster cleans up the associated
resources that were created with the cluster
Summary:
Thus, you have learnt to deploy a sample application onto a
Amazon ECS cluster using Fargate launch type.
