
1
Serverless Datastore and API proxy
Hi, Welcome to the module on Serverless Datastore and API proxy
1
Business Scenario
Capture Analyze and Visualize data
Meta Data Storage
Data protection - Transit / Rest
Let us look at a business scenario.
Challenges faced by Bustle:
Bustle.com was a monolithic web app and had difficulties in scaling
Manual involvement in managing and maintenance of the web app
Wanted engineers to be focused on business rather than operational activities
2
Solution
AWS
Lambda
AWS
DynamoDB
AWS Kinesis
Streams
A
P
I
G
A
T
E
W
A
y
AWS Serverless solution:
Use Amazon Lambda to process data real time from Kinesis streams.
Ran the website entirely as Serverless using Lambda.
Built a complete Lambda & API gateway based software delivery tool.
3
What is DynamoDB
Fully managed NoSQL database service from
Amazon
Automatically provisions storage serves in the
background and replicates table data
Data is stored on solid state disks (SSDs)
and replicates across multiple Availability Zones
Now let’s understand what is DynamoDB?
DynamoDB is a fully managed NoSQL database service from Amazon.
It automatically provisions sufficient storage serves in the background and
replicates your table data across them.
AWS stores data on solid state disks (SSDs) and replicates across multiple
Availability Zones in an AWS region.
4
Benefits of DynamoDB
TableItem1
{
Key:value
}
Let us look at the benefits of DynamoDB :
DynamoDB offers High performance at scale
It’s a fully managed serverless service with high throughput
It’s built for mission-critical workloads
DynamoDB includes three core components : Tables, Items and Attributes
Table is a collection of Items, and
Items are collection of Attributes – which have the actual data in form of Key
and Values (JSON formatted data).
5
What is API Gateway
Fully managed service to create application
backend code and expose them as web service
Handle tasks involved in accepting and processing
up to thousands of concurrent API call.
Acts as a front-door for accessing business
functionalities hosted on various AWS services
such as Lambda, EC2 etc.
Next let us see what is Amazon API Gateway.
Amazon API gateway is a fully managed service to create application backend
code and expose them as web service end points.
API gateway is used by developers to handle all the tasks involved in
accepting and processing up to thousands of concurrent API call.
It acts as a gateway for accessing business functionalities hosted on various
AWS services such as Lambda, EC2 etc.
Pricing of API Gateway:
Billing is based on the outward data transfer and the number of API requests
serviced.
6
How API Gateway works
Let us understand how API Gateway works?
API Gateway enables AWS developers to create and publish new APIs,
Manage, Maintain and monitor a wide range of APIs though a managed
Service.
Through APIs, internal and external applications can assess functionalities
provided by various AWS components eg: Workflows and web applications
running in AWS EC2, code snippets deployed in AWS Lambda etc.
All activities involved in accepting, executing and managing thousands of
concurrent API calls are handled
API Gateway handles management of traffic, controlling authorization and
access, Status Monitoring ,version control etc.
It can generate client Software Development Kits(SDKs) for various
programming and scripting platforms and languages like Android,iOS and
JavaScript
7
No minimum or Initial Costs; pay only based on how many API calls are
received by API Gateway and the quantity of outward data transfer through
gateway
7
Integrated Services
AWS Lambda
AWS DynamoDB
AWS API Gateway
Let us look at the integrated services on AWS using API Gateway, AWS Lambda and
DynamoDB. We shall try to understand the same in the lab section.
8
You have learnt
Serverless Datastore and API proxy
Integration of API Gateway, Lambda and DynamoDB services
In this module you have learnt about:
Serverless Datastore and API proxy
Integration of API Gateway, Lambda and DynamoDB services
9
Amazon DynamoDB
In this video, you’ll learn about Amazon DynamoDB
10
About DynamoDB
You will learn
Use cases of DynamoDB
Here, you will learn about some of the typical
Use cases of Amazon DynamoDB
Usage of DynamoDb
DynamoDB
11
Use cases of DynamoDB
Software
and
internet
Media
and
Entertai
nment
Banking
and
Finance
RetailGamingAd Tech
Before we understand how DynamoDB works, let’s look at few use cases.
In advertising technology, DynamoDB is used as a key-value store for
marketing data, user profiles etc
Gaming companies use DynamoDB to store data such as state of the game,
session history etc
Retail industry uses DynamoDB design patterns to deliver low latency mission
critical use cases like shopping carts, customer profiles etc
Banking and finance industry uses DynamoDB to store data such as
transaction history, fraud detection etc.
In media and entertainment industry, DynamoDB is used when there’s a need
for extreme scaling of throughput, concurrency, reliability and low latency
Software and internet industry uses DynamoDB to accommodate spikes in
traffic, concurrency etc while storing user content.

Use case of DynamoDB
Challenges Faced:
• Widely popular Entertainment Brand
• Offered games include Pokemon GO and
Pokemon Trading card game
DB scalability and reliability Infrastructure management
Let’s now look at one of the use cases of DynamoDB through the customer
story of The Pokemon company. Pokemon company is one of the most
popular entertainment brand. It’s games like Pokemon GO has been globally
successful.
The pokeman company international uses pokemon trainer club to store the
achievements of different players who play different types of games.
Considering the sudden popularity of Pokemon GO, the company had to
seriously think about database scalability and reliability so that they can deliver
great real time experience to their users.
As the no of registered users increased, they also had to worry about
infrastructure management
13
Solution: The Pokemon Company decided to store its data on AWS Cloud(
DynamoDB)
Benefits:
Increase in capacity
Reduced cost
Zero down time
Use case of DynamoDB
In order to meet the demands, the Pokemon company decides to move to
AWS cloud
Pokemon company uses AWS dynamodb to store global migration
configuration and time to live data. Use of DynamoDB has significantly
reduced tracking issues pertaining to user login. They can now track a user
who cross maximum login threshold attempt. This has reduced bot login
attempts by 90%.
The other benefits include increase in capacity, cost reduction and zero
downtime of DB
14
DynamoDB
Document and key-value DB
Single digit ms response time
Fully managed and serverless
Amazon DynamoDB is a key-value NoSQL database which delivers single digit
millisecond response. It’s a document and key-value database that’s fully managed
and serverless. DynamoDB can process 10 trillion requests / day.
Some of its features include :
1. Dynamodb is fully managed and mutli regional NoSQL database
2. It’s performance-oriented database with microsecond latency
3. The DynamoDB global table replicates your data automatically across your choice
of AWS regions
4. DynamoDB accelerator provides in memory cache for faster read operations
5. It provides capacity modes for read/write operations. For predictable workloads,
you can use provisioned mode. It requires you to pick a read/write capacity.
However, if your workloads tend to be unpredictable, you can go for on-demand
mode which will automatically manage the capacity
6. Encryption and point in recovery – DynamoDB encrypts data at rest and offers
point in recovery for accidental read/write operations


Features
Multiregional NoSQl
Performance oriented
Global Table- Replicates data automatically
DynamoDB Accelerator – in memory cache
Capacity modes for read/write
Encryption and point in recovery
Amazon DynamoDB is a key-value NoSQL database which delivers single digit
millisecond response. It’s a document and key-value database. DynamoDB can
process 10 trillion requests / day.
Some of its features include :
1. Dynamodb is fully managed and mutli regional NoSQL database
2. It’s performance-oriented database with microsecond latency
3. The DynamoDB global table replicates your data automatically across your choice
of AWS regions
4. DynamoDB accelerator provides in memory cache for faster read operations
5. It provides capacity modes for read/write operations. For predictable workloads,
you can use provisioned mode. It requires you to pick a read/write capacity.
However, if your workloads tend to be unpredictable, you can go for on-demand
mode which will automatically manage the capacity
6. Encryption and point in recovery – DynamoDB encrypts data at rest and offers
point in recovery for accidental read/write operations
16
Benefits
Enterprise
Ready
Serverless
Benefits of DynamoDb include :
1. Performance : DynamoDB offers
single digit millisecond response
time to all your applications. With
the help of DynamoDB global
tables, data is automatically
replicated across regions of your
choice. Thus it gives you fast and
local access of data. DynamoDB
accelerator offers in memory cache
17
for caching
2. Serverless : DynamoDB is a fully
managed, serverless service from
AWS. It auto-scales tables on
demand to maintain performance
3. Enterprise ready : It follows ACID
properties and encrypts data by
default. It also offers fine grained
identity access and control for all
your tables
17
About DynamoDB
You have learnt
Use cases of DynamoDB
Here, you have learnt
Use cases of Amazon DynamoDB, A demonstration of Dynamo Db
About DynamoDB
18
Additional reading
Deverloper guide

FAQs
Pricing
Migrations

AWS Aurora Serverless
Hi, Welcome to the module on AWS Aurora Serverless
20
Business Scenario
Lightly-used application, with peaks of 30 minutes to several hours
a few times
Manually managing database capacity can take up valuable time and
can lead to inefficient use of database resources
Let us look at a business scenario.
An organization is running a lightly-used application, with peaks of 30 minutes
to several hours a few times each day or several times per year
They no longer want to provision to peak capacity, which would require you to
pay for resources you don't continuously use, or to average capacity, which
would risk performance problems and a poor user experience.
Manually managing database capacity can take up valuable time and can lead
to inefficient use of database resources.
Solution : Use Aurora Serverless, to create a database endpoint, optionally
specify the desired database capacity range, and connect your applications.
21
What is Amazon Aurora Serverless ?
Amazon Aurora Serverless is an on-demand, auto-scaling configuration
for Amazon Aurora
Automatically starts up, shuts down, and scales capacity up or down
based on your application's needs
Enables you to run your database in the cloud without managing any
database capacity
Let us understand what is Amazon Aurora Serverless ?
Amazon Aurora Serverless is an on-demand, auto-scaling configuration
for Amazon Aurora.
It automatically starts up, shuts down, and scales capacity up or down based
on your application's needs.
It enables you to run your database in the cloud without managing any
database capacity.
22
Benefits of Amazon Aurora Serverless
Scale instantly, from hundreds to hundreds-of-thousands of
transactions, in a fraction of a second.
High Availability and Cost Effective
Removes the complexity of provisioning and managing
database capacity.
Highly transparent and durable
Let us look at the Benefits of Amazon Aurora Serverless
Scale instantly, from hundreds to hundreds-of-thousands of transactions, in a
fraction of a second.
Scale in fine-grained increments to provide just the right amount of database
resources and pay only for capacity consumed.
Removes the complexity of provisioning and managing database capacity. The
database will automatically start up, shut down, and scale to match your
application’s needs.
Built on distributed, fault-tolerant, self-healing Aurora storage with 6-way
replication to protect against data loss
23
You have learnt
AWS Aurora Serverless
Benefits and Working of AWS Aurora Serverless
In this module you have learnt about:
AWS Aurora Serverless
Benefits and Working of AWS Aurora Serverless
24
Amazon RDS Proxy
Hi, Welcome to the module on Amazon RDS Proxy
25
Business Scenario
Applications with unpredictable workloads and bottleneck at backends
Applications face frequently open and close database connections
RDS Proxy transforms your approach to building modern
serverless applications
Let us look at a business scenario.
A ship fleet management organization is recently experiencing unpredictable
workloads across multiple applications with Relational database as backends.
The issue is that their Applications face frequently open and close database
connections
Solution: RDS Proxy transforms your approach to building modern serverless
applications that leverage the power and simplicity of relational databases.
26
What is RDS Proxy
Fully managed, highly available database proxy
for RDS
Makes applications more scalable, more resilient to
database failures, and more secure
RDS Proxy is available for Amazon Aurora with
MySQL & PostgreSQL compatibility, Amazon RDS
for MySQL & PostgreSQL
Now let’s understand what is RDS Proxy?
Amazon RDS Proxy is a fully managed, highly available database proxy
for Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS) that makes applications more
scalable, more resilient to database failures, and more secure.
RDS Proxy is available for Amazon Aurora with MySQL compatibility, Amazon
Aurora with PostgreSQL compatibility, Amazon RDS for MySQL, and Amazon
RDS for PostgreSQL.
27
Benefits of RDS Proxy
Amazon RDS Proxy is priced per vCPU per hour for each database instance
The price depends on the RDS instance type used by your database and may
vary by Region
RDS Proxy supports IAM-based authentication to offload credential
management from applications
Let us look at the benefits of RDS Proxy:
Amazon RDS Proxy is priced per vCPU per hour for each database instance for which
it is enabled.
The price depends on the RDS instance type used by your database and may vary by
Region.
RDS Proxy supports IAM-based authentication to offload credential
management from applications.
28
You have learnt
Amazon RDS Proxy
Features and Benefits of RDS Proxy
In this module you have learnt about:
Amazon RDS Proxy
Features and Benefits of RDS Proxy
29
Amazon API Gateway
Hi, welcome to the module on Amazon API Gateway
30
You will learn
Overview of API Gateway
Working of API Gateway
In this module you will learn about
The overview of API Gateway, and
Working of API Gateway

Scenario
An international company offers express delivery services to businesses
worldwide. The company needs to ensure their store managers, online
merchants, and couriers have the latest information on the shipments. They
have workloads running across Amazon EC2, AWS Lambda, Amazon
DynamoDB, and Amazon VPC. They want to expose data securely across
different application platforms and environments at a large scale.
Solution
Create, retain and secure APIs at any scale with Amazon API Gateway
32
What is API Gateway
Act as ‘front-door’ for applications
Fully managed service to create, publish, maintain,
monitor and secure APIs at any scale
Developers can create, publish, monitor maintain and secure APIs at any scale
with the help of Amazon API Gateway.
To access business logic, data or functionality from the backend services, we
can use APIs which act as the ‘front door’ for applications
API Gateway can create RESTful APIs and WebSocket APIs that enables real-
time two-way communication for applications.
API Gateway supports both web applications and containerized serverless
workloads.
33
API Gateway Architecture
The source can be Users, Streaming dashboard, IoT devices or private apps.
The API can hit the backend service of Lambda, EC2, DynamoDB, Private
apps or Datacenter apps.
API Gateway manages all the tasks in accepting and processing thousands of
concurrent API calls, including authorization and access control, throttling,
traffic management, monitoring, CORS support and API version management.
34
Key features
Efficient API development
Lowest latency for API calls
Easy monitoring and Flexible security controls
RESTful API options and cost-effective
Key features:
Run multiple versions of the same API concurrently with API Gateway, for
quick iteration, testing and releasing newer versions.
Provide end users with the lowest possible latency for API requests and
responses along with the global network of edge locations using Amazon
CloudFront.
From the API Gateway dashboard, we can Monitor the performance metrics
and information on API calls, data latency and error rates.
You can create RESTful APIs using HTTP APIs or REST APIs. HTTP APIs can
help build APIs for multiple use cases and is up to 71% cost-friendly than
REST APIs.
35
You have learnt
Overview of API Gateway
Working of API Gateway
In this module you have learnt about
The Overview of API Gateway and the
Working of API Gateway
36