
Simple Notification Service (SNS)
Hi, Welcome to the module on Simple Notification Service , S N S.
1
You will learn
SNS and its key features
In this module you will learn about
SNS and its key features.
2
Scenario
Flight management company need to send notifications to various
stakeholders on Flight Schedules, updates, Offers, Promotions etc.
Mission Critical Live Notifications
3rd party Service integrations Freight Management
Flight Management – Users/Customers
Staff on Flight Monitoring system level notification or indicators
Navigation Displays, Control Display units, Navigation DB (Radio signals, Runways
clearance)
Weather Forecast – subjected or expected delays for Aviation
Ready or not for take-off – Mission Critical for Passengers/Agents etc.
Luggage Terminal/approaches Conveyor – Push notification
3
Need for SNS
Establishing an event-based communication
Send notifications to millions of users
Fanout messages or event details to different end points for parallel processing
Let us now understand the need for SNS.
As SNS is an event-driven service it can be used for establishing event based
communication between microservices or between decoupled application
components.
SNS can be used to send notifications to millions of users using SMS , Push
notifications or through email.
Whenever we have to Fanout messages or event details to different end
points like SQS, Lambda, Email, or HTTPS for parallel processing we have to
make used of AWS SNS.
4
Simple Notification Service
Fully managed push based publisher subscriber based
messaging service
Application to Application and Application to Persons
communication
AWS SNS is a fully managed push-based publisher subscriber based
messaging service that can be used for both Application to Application and
Application to Persons communication.
5
Simple Notification Service
Publisher/subscriber or a pub/sub based service
Asynchronous communication
A topic is an access point helps in identifying a subject or event type
SNS is a publisher/subscriber or a pub/sub based service. Pub/sub is a asynchronous
communication wherein publisher publishes message to a topic and it will be sent to
all the subscribers of the topic.
A topic is an access point helps in identifying a subject or event type for publishing as
well as subscribing to messages or events.
6
Simple Notification Service
SNS can send messages to SQS, Lambda, HTTPS end points, Mobiles and Emails.
7
Key features of SNS
Unlimited
throughput Message filtering
Delivery retries Dead letter queue
Few of the other key features of SNS are,
It offers nearly unlimited throughput. We can send any amount of messages per
second.
Message filtering. Subscribers can create a filter policy for a Topic and get only the
required notification from the topic.
It supports message delivery retries. By making use of the delivery policy
feature of SNS, we can specify the number of retry attempts that need to be
made before discarding the message.
SNS also supports dead letter queue. Suppose if a message couldn’t ne
delivered to an endpoint as per the delivery policy, then instead of discarding
the messages, they can be moved a dead letter queue for analysis.

You have learnt
SNS and its key features
In this module you have learnt about
AWS SNS and its key features.
9
Simple Queue Service
Hi, Welcome to the module on Simple Queue Service
10
You will learn
SQS and its key features
In this module you will learn about
Simple Queue Service SQS and its key features.
11
Simple Queue Service
SQS is a fully managed queuing service from AWS.
SQS is a fully managed queuing service from AWS.
12
Need of SQS
Decouple serverless application components, microservices and various
distributed systems
Buffer between application components
SQS is one of the commonly used integration service which helps to decouple
serverless application components, microservices and various distributed
systems.
It also acts as Buffer between application components. It can be used to store
and retrieve messages with unlimited throughput. Messages can be kept in the
queue from 1 min or 60 seconds to 14 days. Default msg retention period is 4
days.
13
SQS is a Pull based service
Producer Consumer
Message
to SQS
Poll/Receive
Messages
DeleteMessage API
Simple Queue Service
SQS is a Pull based service.
Whenever a producer sends a messages to an SQS queue, the
message will be stored in it. A consumer like Ec2 instance or lambda
can regular poll the queue for messages and process them if any. Upon
successful processing of messages, the consumer can put a request to
delete the message in the queue using delete message API.
14
Types of SQS Queues
SQS
Queue
Standard FIFO
SQS offers two types of queues – Standard and First in First out.
Let us now understand them starting with standard queue.
15
Standard Queue
Default queue type
Delivers message at least once
Best-effort ordering
Unlimited throughput
Standard queue is the default queue type.
As per the design it tries to deliver the message at least once. Sometimes a message
could be delivered more than once.
It offers best effort ordering . Occasionally the messages can be delivered out of
order.
Offers unlimited throughput.
16
FIFO Queue
Preserves the order of messages
Exactly-once send capability
Limited throughput – 300 API calls
Messages are processed in order by the consumer
FIFO queue Preserves the order of messages in the queue and delivers messages to
the consumers in order. Thus the Messages are processed in order by the
consumer.
It sends the messages exactly once and thus avoids duplicate
processing of messages.
It offers limited throughput. As of December 2020, it is 300 API calls per
second.
17
You have learnt
SQS and its key features
In this module you have learn about
Simple Queue Service SQS and its key features.
18